docs(kong-manager): OIDC and LDAP updates (#6794)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/kong-manager/auth/oidc/migrate.md

if not specified.

This parameter is used while looking up for admin's associated groups from the ID token.

### redirect_uri

`redirect_uri` now should be configured to an array of URLs that points to Admin API's authentication
endpoint (e.g., `["http://localhost:8001/auth"]`). Whereas, `redirect_uri` were previously URLs
pointing to Kong Manager (e.g., `["http://localhost:8002"]`).

### login_redirect_uri

`login_redirect_uri` now becomes a **required** parameter to configure the destination after authenticating
with the IdP. It should be always be an array of URLs that points to the Kong Manager
(e.g., `["http://localhost:8002"]`).

### logout_redirect_uri

`logout_redirect_uri` now becomes a **required** parameter to configure the destination after logging
out from the IdP. It should be always be an array of URLs that points to the Kong Manager
(e.g., `["http://localhost:8002"]`).

Previously, Kong Manager will not perform an [RP-initiated logout](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-rpinitiated-1_0.html#RPLogout)
from the IdP when a user request to logout. From Gateway v3.6 and onwards, Kong Manager will perform
an RP-initiated logout upon user logout.

> ## admin_gui_session_conf

Reviewer: What will happen if we don't update it?

Author: @raoxiaoyan If a user does not have any parameters configured for session management, the default session configuration provided by the OIDC plugin (which is slightly different from the one provided by the session plugin) will be used. 

For instance, a user may find the default value changed if they neither have `admin_gui_session_conf` nor session-related parameters configured in `admin_gui_auth_conf`.

I will add an extra warning here to ensure that the user won't miss this out.

Reviewer: Sounds good. It looks like doesn't affect the customer's use.

---
title: Migrate from Previous Configurations
badge: enterprise
---

# Breaking changes

> As of Gateway v3.6, Kong Manager uses the session management mechanism in the OpenID Connect plugin,
> `admin_gui_session_conf` is no longer required when authenticating with OIDC. Instead, session-related
> configuration parameters in `admin_gui_auth_conf` (like `session_secret`) will be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of Gateway v3.6, Kong Manager uses the session management mechanism in the OpenID Connect plugin.
`admin_gui_session_conf` is no longer required when authenticating with OIDC. Instead, session-related
configuration parameters are set in `admin_gui_auth_conf` (like `session_secret`).
```

> It is recommended to review your configuration as some session-related parameters in `admin_gui_auth_conf`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend reviewing your configuration, as some session-related parameters in `admin_gui_auth_conf`
```

have different default values compared to the ones in `admin_gui_session_conf`.

> ## admin_gui_auth_conf

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `admin_gui_auth_conf`
```

> ### scopes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `scopes`
```

While using the OpenID Connect plugin with Kong Manager, `scopes` now have a default value of
`["openid", "email", "offline_access"]` if not specified.

> * `openid`: Essential for OpenID Connect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `openid`: Essential for OpenID Connect.
```

> * `email`: To retrieve user's email address and include it in the ID token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `email`: Retrieves the user's email address and includes it in the ID token
```

> * `offline_access`: Essential refresh tokens to refresh the access tokens and sessions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `offline_access`: Essential refresh tokens to refresh the access tokens and sessions.
```

> This parameter can be modified according to needs. However, `"openid"` and `"offline_access"` should

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter can be modified according to your needs. However, `"openid"` and `"offline_access"` should
```

> always be included to ensure the OpenID Connect plugin works normally. Also, making sure that `scopes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
always be included to ensure the OpenID Connect plugin works normally. Also, make sure that `scopes`
```

contains sufficient scopes for the claim specified by this parameter.

> ### admin_claim

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `admin_claim`
```

> `admin_claim` is now an optional parameter which has a default value of `["email"]` if not specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`admin_claim` is now an optional parameter. If not set, it defaults to `["email"]`.
```

> This parameter is used while looking up for admin's username from the ID token. While configuring this,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter is used while looking up the admin's username from the ID token. When configuring this setting,
```

> making sure that `scopes` contains sufficient scopes for the claim specified by this parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
make sure that `scopes` contains sufficient scopes for the claim specified by this parameter.
```

> ### authenticated_groups_claim

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `authenticated_groups_claim`
```

> `authenticated_groups_claim` is now an optional parameter which has a default value of `["groups"]`
> if not specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`authenticated_groups_claim` is now an optional parameter. If not set, it defaults to `["groups"]`.
```

> This parameter is used while looking up for admin's associated groups from the ID token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This parameter is used while looking up the admin's associated groups from the ID token.
```

> ### redirect_uri

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `redirect_uri`
```

> `redirect_uri` now should be configured to an array of URLs that points to Admin API's authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`redirect_uri` now should be configured as an array of URLs that points to Admin API's authentication
```

> endpoint (e.g., `["http://localhost:8001/auth"]`). Whereas, `redirect_uri` were previously URLs
> pointing to Kong Manager (e.g., `["http://localhost:8002"]`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
endpoint (for example,`["http://localhost:8001/auth"]`). 
Previously, `redirect_uri` was a list of URLs
pointing to Kong Manager (for example,`["http://localhost:8002"]`).
```

> ### login_redirect_uri

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `login_redirect_uri`
```

> `login_redirect_uri` now becomes a **required** parameter to configure the destination after authenticating

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`login_redirect_uri` is now a **required** parameter to configure the destination after authenticating
```

with the IdP. It should be always be an array of URLs that points to the Kong Manager

> (e.g., `["http://localhost:8002"]`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(for example, `["http://localhost:8002"]`).
```

> ### logout_redirect_uri

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `logout_redirect_uri`
```

> `logout_redirect_uri` now becomes a **required** parameter to configure the destination after logging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`logout_redirect_uri` is now a **required** parameter to configure the destination after logging
```

out from the IdP. It should be always be an array of URLs that points to the Kong Manager

> (e.g., `["http://localhost:8002"]`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(for example, `["http://localhost:8002"]`).
```

> Previously, Kong Manager will not perform an [RP-initiated logout](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-rpinitiated-1_0.html#RPLogout)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, Kong Manager didn't perform an [RP-initiated logout](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-rpinitiated-1_0.html#RPLogout)
```

from the IdP when a user request to logout. From Gateway v3.6 and onwards, Kong Manager will perform
an RP-initiated logout upon user logout.

> ## admin_gui_session_conf

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `admin_gui_session_conf`
```

> As the OpenID Connect plugin has a built-in session management mechanism, `admin_gui_session_conf`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the OpenID Connect plugin now has a built-in session management mechanism, `admin_gui_session_conf`
```

is no longer used while authenticating with OIDC. You should also update your configuration

> if you have previously configured the session management via `admin_gui_session_conf` for OIDC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if you have previously configured session management via `admin_gui_session_conf` for OIDC.
```

> Additionally, default values of some parameters have been changed. Please check the following for
> more details:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, the default values of some parameters have been changed. 
See the following for more details:
```

> ### secret
> 
> You should now configure this via `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_secret`.
> 
> A randomly generated secret will be used if not specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `secret`

You should now configure this via `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_secret`.

If not set, {{site.base_gateway}} will randomly generate a secret.
```

> ### cookie_secure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `cookie_secure`
```

> You should now configure this via `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_cookie_secure`.
> 
> Previously, `cookie_secure` will be set to `true` if not specified. However, `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_cookie_secure`
> now has a default value of `false`. If you are using HTTPS rather than HTTP, it is recommended to be
> enabled to enhance the security.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should now configure this via `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_cookie_secure`.

Previously, `cookie_secure` was set to `true` if not specified. However, `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_cookie_secure`
now has a default value of `false`. 
If you are using HTTPS rather than HTTP, we recommend enabling this option to enhance security.
```

> ### cookie_samesite

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `cookie_samesite`
```

You should now configure this via `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_cookie_same_site`.

> Previously, `cookie_samesite` will be set to `Strict` if not specified. However, `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_cookie_same_site`
> now has a default value of `Lax`. If you are using the same domain for the Admin API and Kong Manager,
> it is recommended to upgrade it `Strict` to enhance the security.
> 
> Learn more about [SameSite in the Cookie](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie#samesitesamesite-value)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, `cookie_samesite` was set to `Strict` if not specified. However, `admin_gui_auth_conf.session_cookie_same_site`
now has a default value of `Lax`. If you are using the same domain for the Admin API and Kong Manager,
we recommend upgrading this setting to `Strict` to enhance security.

Learn more about [SameSite in the Cookie](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie#samesitesamesite-value).
```
